Have you decided
what you're gonna do
with your weekend furlough?
Well. I've never been
to a baseball game before. so...
I thought I might check one out.
I went to one. Goes on forever.
You could seriously skip
everything but the last inning.
OVER RADIO: 'Alpha-One-Niner.
contact Newark Centre on 1-3-2.2.'
Newark Centre 1-3-2.2.
Thanks for your company.
Alpha-One-Niner.
Newark Centre Ascot.
Alpha-One-Niner. flight level 3-4-0.
OVER RADIO:
'Alpha-One-Niner. identified.
'Please be advised. there
is a Russian frigate and submarine
'en route to Cuba
running drills in the area.'
Good to know. Newark.
Alpha-One-Niner.
PILOTS GRUNT
Mayday! Mayday!
'Warning. terrain.'
'Warning.'
We're going down!
SCREAMS
LUCREZIA MILLARINI:
In her annual security update.
MI5 Director General
Madeline Delaney.
seen here in Washington.
discussed the 64 Russian officials
recently expelled
from British and US embassies
across Europe.
She accused more than 20
of being spies.
This latest expulsion has been
ordered almost 18 months to the day
since the prototype for the new
Samson D-300 transport plane
was alleged to have been
accidentally shot down
by a Russian submarine taking part
in exercises in the North Atlantic.
The Kremlin has strongly denied
any involvement in the tragedy
that cost the lives
of British Airmen
Flight Lieutenant
Patrick Johnson
and his co-pilot.
Flying Officer Paul Edney.
While there is no official word
that the Embassy expulsions
were in response
to the D-300 incident.
it does indicate growing tensions
between Britain and Russia.
And in related news.
the much-delayed D-300.
a joint venture
between the UK and US military.
is finally rolling off
the production line this week.
Happy Saturday.
Comms check for Brody.
OVER RADIO: 'Comms are good. sir.'
Morning. Pete.
Is this a list
of the internal events team? It is.
Lincoln Suite's pretty much set up.
and the podium's being brought up
as we speak.
Good.
So. the plan is the function
will start in the atrium.
the Ambassador will give
some sort of toast.
and then we'll move everyone
into The Lincoln Suite for food.
Do we have any special deliveries
scheduled?
Only one. Courier is just arriving
at Heathrow on the Red Eye now.
OVER TANNOY: 'Flight DL586
from Washington has just landed.
'Passengers please proceed
to the baggage hall.'
'Flight DA3151
to Paris Charles de Gaulle
'will now depart from Gate 2.'
Just the one piece of luggage.
is it. sir? That's right.
I'm a diplomatic courier
just in from Washington.
What's inside
can't be opened or X-rayed.
Very good. Mr Mills.
Welcome to the UK.
Thanks.
Double espresso! David!
Oh. Jesus. What a mess.
Sorry. mate.
Might be a minute here.
What do you need? Sugar?
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Jab. One-two.
One-two. hook.
SHE GRUNTS
Good! Give me that kick!
Beautiful!
Combo. parry. Chalk out.
Boom. boom. hook. elbow.
Good. Turn me. Nice.
Upper cut. hooks. Kick.
Beautiful. Knock out.
SHE GRUNTS
Oof!
We done?
No.
All right.
Let's go again.
Hey. sis. Happy birthday!
Thank you.
Eurgh! Sweaty! Ew!
Jess. you're early.
Yes. cos I took the day off
to spend with you.
Seriously?
Mm-hm.
You took a break from reporting
on the fascinating world
of local council meetings
to spend time with me?
Er. shut up.
And if you must know...
I've been cultivating this piece
about an RAF engineer who
authorities say committed suicide.
But his body was never found
and his wife suspects murder.
Really?
Mm-hm.
I just have one more interview
with her.
and Damian says it'll run
in next Sunday's edition.
Very cool.
But if his body was never found.
how do they know it's suicide?
Exactly!
BRODY: Hey. guys. listen up.
I'll keep this brief.
In about six hours. we're gonna have
100 guests arriving.
Now. I know we've already done
a full house sweep.
but I want another at noon
and a third an hour before.
Unoccupied spaces
will be locked down.
We don't need guests
wandering anywhere they shouldn't.
Pete. you'll run a four-man team
securing the eighth floor
and AMBUS' personal protection.
Yes. sir.
And I've told you to call me Brody.
But I know how much you Brits
like your titles.
LAUGHTER
All right.
Now. this is the Ambassador's
first official party.
so I want it to go by the numbers.
No mistakes.
Let's take this as an opportunity
to show him just how well
we do things.
So keep your eyes peeled
and your comms open.
It's a big night. Let's go.
Sir.
Agent Lewis?
I know this is a big step up.
How's your first week?
Good. sir.
Nervous about tonight?
I just don't wanna let you down.
Did you let anybody down
in training?
No.
Good.
Remember. I wouldn't have hired you
if I didn't think
you could do the job.
Thank you. sir.
GASPS
COUGHS
INHALES
COUGHS AND SPLUTTERS
RETCHES
DISTORTED WHEEZING
MAN 1: Are you all right. mate?
MAN 2: Are you all right. mate?
You all right?
DISTORTED: Jesus Christ.
DISTORTED: Are you OK?
Someone call an ambulance!
DISTORTED: Call an ambulance. quick!
HEAVY.
DISTORTED BREATHING
Are you ready?
Is that what you're wearing
to the restaurant?
What's wrong with this?
You look like you're going to work.
Mum and dad
have really made an effort. sis.
Dad's wearing his special tie.
AND he's even got Mr Suen
to make you Ji Dan Bing.
It's just a birthday. Jess.
Ach. just a birthday (!)
Right. OK.
Wait. what are you doing?
Come here.
There! Now at least
you look the part.
Better?
Mm-hm.
PHONE BUZZES
It's Simon.
No. don't answer it.
I have to. I'm still on call.
Wait. You didn't book the day off?
I don't have cover.
Hey. boss.
Happy birthday.
'Oh. Thank you.'
Is that why you're calling me?
'I wish it was.'
How fast can you meet me
at Terminal 3?
Heathrow? Why?
A diplomatic courier's
been murdered.
MOUTHS: Go!
I'll be right there.
Thank you.
MAN: Ma'am.
Morning. Rowan.
Morning. Director General.
Ruth. it's Madeline.
Just checking in before take-off.
Good morning. ma'am.
Did you get the operational updates?
'I did.
I'll read them on my way back.'
Listen. do you have any idea why
Defence Secretary Peterson is here?
'He's been at a Pentagon briefing
on joint military spending.'
His office didn't call you?
No.
It seems his meetings overran.
so they put him on your plane back.
Wonderful.
'He's a nice guy.
but bloody pompous.
'Did you get my minutes?'
I did.
I've marked up all the pertinent
talking points
for my briefing with the PM
on Monday.
Can you have them put together
for me?
'Actually. ma'am.
the PM has asked to reschedule.
'She has an emergency meeting
with the US Ambassador.'
Tillman?
Ambassador for five minutes.
and already
he's throwing his weight around.
I wonder what can be so important?
Is there anything else
we need to discuss?
There is just one matter. ma'am.
'A US diplomatic courier
was murdered
'at Heathrow this morning.'
Do they know who's responsible?
We're waiting for an update.
'OK. Keep me posted.'
But unless the Americans ask
for our help. let's stay out of it.
Very good. ma'am.
Morning. Madeline. Sorry for
crowding onto your plane like this.
It's the government's plane. Alex.
Well. thanks anyway.
How's. er... How's your husband?
Leonard?
Yes. Leonard. How's he doing?
Erm. he's as well
as can be expected.
Bloody shame.
Climbing is a dangerous hobby.
He was a nice chap.
He still is.
Of course.
That's what I meant.
Mm.
Director General Delaney.
It's a pleasure
to have you back on board.
Thank you. Sarah. Do you know
the Defence Secretary? No.
Alex Peterson.
Welcome aboard. sir.
I'm sensing ex-military.
RAF.
Well. I feel safe in your hands.
Captain Wright.
Well. I'll let you get settled.
The weather report promises
clear skies all the way to London.
OVER TANNOY: 'Gates 17-23 are closed
to the public.
'Now boarding.
Flight 357 to Beijing.'
Hey. boss.
Sorry to drag you away
from family time. Hana.
Ah. you can make it up to me
with a ridiculously big present.
This is Sergeant Magill.
He was first on the scene.
Let's. er. step into my office.
shall we?
Excuse me?
What are you doing?
Just taking a look.
It's a crime scene.
RSO Brody. this is...
Hana Li.
That's right. She'll be running
the police investigation.
What're you doing here?
I'm Regional Security Officer
for the US Embassy. How?
It's good to see you. too.
You two know each other?
Hana and I trained together
at Hendon.
And to answer your question.
I have dual citizenship.
So. what can you tell me
about our victim?
David Mills.
He's a member of
the US Diplomatic Courier Service.
He'd just arrived on a red-eye
from DC with a bag
for Ambassador Tillman.
What was in it?
I don't know.
That's kind of the point
of a diplomatic bag.
The three witnesses say he ran in.
threw up in that stall.
he crosses to the sinks.
washes his face
and then just keels over.
There are no defensive wounds.
Do you mind?
I don't see any signs of an attack.
It could be medical.
Heart attack. brain embolism.
What made you jump to murder?
His diplomatic bag. passport
and wallet were stolen.
Seems pretty extreme for a robbery.
Do we still have those witnesses?
They're giving statements.
And were they searched for the bag?
They were. and their luggage.
It's gone.
We'll need to wait
for pathology to be sure...
..but if he was murdered...
..I'd guess he was poisoned.
I'd like to talk to the witnesses.
if that's possible.
It's not. And I'm gonna need a copy
of that personnel file for Mr Mills.
Well. that one's for you.
I'd like to take a look
at the security footage now. Yeah.
You know. I am here
on official business.
As what?
You're not police. RSO Brody.
so you have
no official business here.
You're pulling jurisdiction?
I don't need to.
considering yours begins and ends
inside a quarter square mile
south of the Thames.
Haven't changed. have you. Hana?
Happy birthday.
SHE GROANS
Dulles Tower. this is
Gulfstream-Lima-zero-six-one
requesting departure information.
Ho!
Mr Peterson forgot this.
That was a close one.
Thanks.
Cheers.
Let's do this again.
And we are taxiing.
Taxi checks. please.
Transponder squawking.
six-zero-seven-zero.
Lights on. Compass checks?
Three-zero-two...
..five times.
FMS take off.
Take off speeds checked.
altimeter set one-zero-zero-two.
That orange sack
is a diplomatic bag?
It's not very subtle. is it?
Sergeant. pick him up again
in the terminal building.
So. Brody's ex police?
He wishes.
No. he quit the training
after getting me back-classed.
What. he's the partner
that nearly killed your instructor?
Yep.
A cell extraction exercise.
wasn't it? Yeah.
Brody was restraining
the instructor.
Next thing I know.
he just... lost control.
I was his partner. so I was...
responsible for talking him down.
and I couldn't.
So I was back-classed for that.
What did he have to say for himself?
Nothing. He just left.
Dorm room was packed up.
I never saw him again.
Well. is it gonna be a problem?
Not if he stays out of my way.
There's Mills.
leaving the coffee shop.
Can you fast forward?
He looks fine.
Yeah. until he doesn't.
I thought you said the witnesses
were all business travellers?
No-one said anything
about a cleaner.
Is that you?
Yeah.
Go wide. Where's that cleaner gone?
There he is.
Right. keep following him.
Where does that door lead?
The maintenance tunnels.
He swiped his ID card.
That data has to be logged
somewhere. It is.
We'll need his name and address.
TYRES SCREECH
So. what do we know about this guy?
Alexander Bortnik. 38 years old.
Emigrated from Russia
nine years ago.
Divorced... no children.
but three priors for drink driving.
assault and resisting arrest.
Hmm.
And they say
all the good ones are taken (!)
Alexander Bortnik!
Alexander Bortnik! Stop!
Hana!
Police!
Hana! Wait! Wait!
Stop!
GRUNTING
Hana!
Stop!
Stop! Police!
WHEEZING
Control. I need an urgent ambulance
to my location.
Control. an urgent ambulance
All right. hang on. Hang on.
They're coming. hang on!
Hana! Hang on.
MAN GASPS
HE GASPS
GRUNTS
SHE GRUNTS
DISTORTED BREATHING
SWITCHBLADE CLICKS
Excuse me.
What are you doing?
Shit!
Boss. it's me. Bortnik's got away
with the courier's bag.
'Yeah. it wasn't Bortnik.
He's here.'
I think he's been poisoned.
'Then who the hell was I chasing?'
Thank you. Never too early for
a good Scotch. Make mine a double.
Celebrating or commiserating?
Too soon to say.
I was invited to Ronald Tillman's
party at the US Embassy tonight.
But obviously. I'm gonna miss it.
You couldn't pay me to be there.
I still don't understand why
the PM backed him for ambassador.
Why? Because while he's an oaf
and a ruthless fuck.
he does have a way
of bringing in the money.
Yeah. but that's not what I mean.
We both know that PMs stay out
of ambassador selection. so...
why get off the bench for him?
You can't deny that the Samson D-300
being assembled in Britain
is a huge political win for her.
And we all know that a booming
economy equals re-election.
After the D-300 incident.
I thought Tillman was finished.
We all did.
The man's a bloody cockroach.
It'd take more than a plane crash
to keep him down.
Thank you. Rowan.
PHONE BUZZES
To missing Tillman's party.
Sir.
DETECTOR BEEPS
Stop right there. sir.
I'm an ex-Air Marshal.
I have some shrapnel in my leg.
Thank you. sir.
Thank you.
Craig and Mary Stewart.
Welcome. sir.
Thank you.
Ah. perfect.
There you go.
Thanks.
I'm glad we decided to do this.
You did. I can't stand the man.
I don't know what your problem is
with him.
He's always been very good to us.
Noel King. Friend of the Ambassador.
Thank you. sir.
DETECTOR BEEPS
Stop right there. sir.
Sorry. I thought I put everything
in the tray.
It's not even mine. I vape.
Thank you.
So. someone hires Bortnik
to help steal the diplomatic bag.
but instead of paying him.
he's just tried to kill him.
Cheaper. It also stops Bortnik
from naming him.
This is about
more than a simple robbery.
O'Brien.
Yeah.
Yeah. with what?
And they're sure?
All right. received.
That tox screen just came back
on the courier. David Mills.
It turns out he was poisoned.
What type?
Strychnine.
How long does that take
to kill someone?
It's quick. apparently. 15.
20 minutes if you don't get help.
So Mills must've been dosed
inside Terminal 3. Yeah.
Do you remember that coffee shop
he stopped at? Hot Brew?
Yeah. Can you get someone to pull
the security footage from inside?
Yeah. why? Where are you going?
To the US Embassy to find out
what was in the diplomatic bag.
Well. I think the coffee shop
takes priority.
Simon. this guy murdered
a diplomatic courier today
for the contents of that bag.
I think we need to know
what he took. Yeah. I hear you.
But the quicker we ID him.
the quicker we can catch him. OK?
Go to the airport. Hana.
That's an order!
CAR DOOR SLAMS.
ENGINE STARTS
MAN: What do you say we say
quick hellos. then go catch a show?
WOMAN: But why? I just don't get it.
You made it.
Noel.
When did you fly in?
Last night.
I don't believe
you've met my wife. Mary.
Noel. Pleased to meet you.
And you.
Noel's company makes the engines
for the D-300 project.
Ah.
It must be a great relief
to finally see the plane going
into production
after all that's happened. It is.
And almost twice the order size
we initially thought. Hm.
Perry.
Noel.
You know Craig.
Perry.
And this is his wife. Mary.
Mary. of course.
Perry. my goodness.
It's nice to put a face to the name.
A toast.
To the past staying the past.
and. thanks to Ronald.
only blue skies ahead.
Hear. hear.
Cheers.
GLASSES CLINK
With the roll-out
of the D-300 this week.
I think you should say a few words
of condolence for the airmen
who lost their lives.
Yeah. you think so?
It shows sensitivity
and sets the right tone.
OK. OK. er...
this is a party. you know?
I want the people who supported me
to have a good time.
These people can take me
all the way to the White House.
Understood.
But there are the optics
to be considered.
Yeah. yeah.
I just want you to start your term
on the right foot.
Ma'am.
Guests are all here. Ambassador.
"Ambassador." I do like that.
These were a gift from the Palace.
Isn't that something!
KEYPAD BEEPS
OK. let's do this.
AMBUS is on the move.
Thank you. Peter.
Shall we run through the guests
in order of importance?
DS Li. London Police.
I'm here on official business.
I need to talk
to Ambassador Tillman.
Wait here.
The Mayor and his wife send their
apologies that they can't attend.
Hm. So after your speech. I suggest
starting with your major supporters.
ELEVATOR: 'Doors closing.'
AMBUS is in the elevator.
OVER RADIO: 'Atrium.
prepare for AMBUS's arrival.'
RSO Brody will meet you here.
Wait. no.
I said I wanted to speak
to the Ambassador. not...
Oh. God's sake.
Ambassador Tillman.
Air Marshal Johnson.
I'd love to talk to you
about the D-300.
Uh. Mr Johnson.
I don't think tonight's the night.
Let's set up a call
between you and the Ambassador.
I've tried bloody calling.
It does no good.
We'll figure something out. OK?
Hana.
Welcome to my quarter-square-mile
south of the Thames.
Or after the Maxwell incident.
should I say welcome back?
You've been reading up on me.
Have you found the bag?
No. That's why I'm here.
I need to speak to the Ambassador
and find out what was stolen.
As you can see. he's a bit busy.
Even you must remember
how vital the first 48 hours are
in a murder enquiry.
Even me?
OK.
Brody here. Can you tell the DCM
I need a quick word?
Cece Redding.
She's Deputy Chief of Mission.
What is it?
I can't leave him for long.
Ms Redding. this is DS Hana Li.
She's investigating
the courier's death at Heathrow
and requests a moment
with the Ambassador.
Tonight? You can't be serious?
It depends on how seriously
you take murder.
TILLMAN: Friends. Welcome.
Welcome. I know. uh. some of you
have travelled far to be here.
and I thank you.
It truly warms my heart to see you
all gathered here tonight.
APPLAUSE
Leave it with me.
But... But before we begin.
I'd. uh... I'd like to take
a brief moment of remembrance
for the two airmen who lost
their lives in the prototype D-300.
As you all know. I was CEO
of AM Aeronautics at that time.
so... this tragedy
hits close to home.
But with the launch of production
this week.
I feel the spirit
of these brave men lives on.
You OK?
Yeah. of course. Let's go.
So. please. raise a glass.
And I want everyone here
who supported me to know
that this appointment is not
just an opportunity for me.
It is an opportunity for all of us.
NOEL: Hear! Hear!
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE
So... dual citizenship aside.
how'd you end up running security
at the US Embassy?
I like the feeling I get
when I'm protecting people.
So after I left the army.
security seemed like a good fit.
The army?
So that's where you ran off to.
Yeah.
And you stayed.
I knew you would.
Nothing was gonna stop you
wearing the uniform.
I don't quit.
No. you don't.
OK. DS Li. you have three minutes.
Ambassador Tillman. I presume
you're aware of the murder
of the diplomatic courier
this morning at Heathrow?
I have been briefed.
To help with my enquiries. sir.
please could you to tell me
what was inside the bag.
What was inside is irrelevant.
Why do you say that?
Because it was just a box of Cubans
to toast my appointment.
You send gifts in diplomatic bags?
It's not unheard of.
So. you see. if the perpetrator
thought they were stealing.
I don't know. state secrets.
they'll be sadly disappointed.
Unless. of course.
they like a good cigar.
Enjoy the party.
'I'm sorry
that wasn't more helpful.'
It doesn't make any sense.
If what was in the bag
was so unimportant.
then why kill the courier for it?
We're under threat 24/7.
Probably just took a chance
it was valuable.
Maybe.
I'll walk you out.
What's wrong?
What if he didn't care
what was in the bag.
only that it was coming here?
I don't follow.
He also took Mills' ID.
You think he tried
to enter the embassy?
He wouldn't get past security.
With all these guests.
how much scrutiny do you think
they'd give a diplomatic courier?
This is one of the most
secure buildings on the planet.
So humour me.
This is Brody. Run a door check.
I need to know if Diplomatic Courier
David Mills is in the house.
'He entered 20 minutes ago. sir.'
Shit.
Come on.
DOOR BEEPS
Show me security check-in.
Go back 20 minutes.
Yes. sir.
Roll it forward.
There. In the baseball cap. Him!
You recognise him?
Yeah.
Same build. same look.
That's him.
Give us another look at him.
Sir.
Did you see that? I think he slipped
that other man something.
Rewind and freeze frame.
Zoom in on him.
It's something metal? A lighter?
Stay on him.
He caused a distraction.
That lighter set off the alarm.
Track him.
He's heading for the east elevators.
Where's he going?
Eighth floor.
Intruder is on eight.
PHONE RINGS
Hello. Megan speaking.
MAN: 'Crimson Icarus.'
I'm sorry? Who is this?
'I said. "Crimson Icarus." '
What are you talking about?
'The target
is Gulfstream Lima-zero-six-one.
'Now do you know
what I'm talking about?'
Move! Get out the way!
Ruth... we have a problem.
MAN: This was ten minutes ago. sir.
What's he waiting for?
It's like he wanted to be seen.
There are no cameras in there.
Whose office is that?
The Ambassador's office.
McQueen. this is Brody. Do you copy?
McQueen. do you have the unsub?
McQueen. answer me.
Fast forwarding. That's live.
No-one's come out. sir.
Intruder is in AMBUS's office.
Intruder is still inside.
Be advised. McQueen is too.
'Brody. sir.'
What's the sit rep?
'You better see for yourself.'
DIAL TONE RINGS
'Ruth.' Ma'am. I need
to speak to you privately.
One second.
OK. I'm alone.
A few minutes ago. a call came in
on Megan's secure line. ma'am.
It was a bomb threat.
'A bomb threat? From whom?'
This is Megan. ma'am.
He didn't identify himself
as being affiliated
with any terrorist organisations
or foreign powers.
'But he did have a Russian accent.'
Did he say what the target was?
He did.
Well. are we playing 20 questions.
or are you going to tell me?
I'm sorry. ma'am. It's your plane.
'He threatened to detonate
the device
'if you attempt to turn back
to the US
or land before reaching London.'
How credible is this intel?
He cited Crimson Icarus.
'It's a confirmed Russian code
from the MOD threat list.'
Play me his call.
MAN: 'The target
is Gulfstream Lima-zero-six-one.
'I'm sure I don't need to tell you
which plane that is.
'I have a detonator.
'If the plane deviates
from its current course.
'I will blow it up.
'And do not try to land.
'If the plane drops
below 20.000 feet.
'the bomb will detonate.'
Have we managed
to identify the caller?
Not yet. ma'am. We're running
voice analysis as we speak.
'And what about the location
of the call?'
'That's the thing. ma'am.'
The call came
from inside the US Embassy.
from Ambassador Tillman's office.
HANA: Well. where's the intruder?
MAN: He's gone. ma'am.
Jesus Christ. Pete.
How the hell can he just disappear?
Subtitles by accessibility@itv.com